---
layout: post
title: Faglig-sosialt medlemsm&oslash;te om Perl 6!
---
<p>Oslo.pm arrangerer trippel gjesteforedrag! Denne gangen har vi lånt to
foredragsholdere fra årets <a href="http://conferences.yapceurope.org/npw2007/">Nordic Perl Workshop i København</a>.</p>

<pre>
   Tid:  <strong>Onsdag 2. mai 2007, klokken 18:00</strong>
   Sted: <strong>Høyskolen i Oslo, avd. for Ingeniørutdanning
         Cort Adelers gate 30, auditorium 1.701 (7. etg.)</strong> 
   Kart: <a href="http://www.kvasir.no/kart/index.c?id=a_168652" title="Link til kart">http://www.kvasir.no/kart/index.c?id=a_168652</a>

   Merk tid og sted!
</pre>


<h4>Nelson Ferraz: &quot;Adventures in Perl6&quot;</h4>

<p>This talk is about writing text adventures, or Interactive Fictions, in
Perl6.</p>

<p>Interactive fiction, often abbreviated IF, describes a computer game in
which players use text commands to control characters and influence the
environment. In common usage, the word refers to text adventures, a
type of adventure game with text-based input and output.</p>

<p>The process of writing an IF in Perl6 is an adventure in itself.</p>

<h4>Nelson Ferraz: &quot;Code Generation with Perl&quot;</h4>

<p>Code Generation is the technique of writing programs that write or
    manipulate other programs. In many cases, this allows programmers to
    get more done in the same amount of time as they would take to write
    all the code manually.  </p>

<p>This presentation will show how Perl can be used to generate other
    languages and Perl itself.</p>

<p>We&#39;ll also be introduced to an XML-based application description
    language, which allows a programmer to describe *what* he wants to
    produce, not *how* to implement it.</p>


<h4>Jonathan Worthington: &quot;Playing with bird guts&quot;</h4>

<p>Parrot is a virtual machine for dynamic languages. It is one
   target for Perl 6 amongst a wide range of other languages. In this talk
   I&#39;ll dive into how some bits of Parrot actually work. I&#39;ll include:</p>

<ul><li>A high level overview of how you go from high level langauge to
       actually running It</li>
<li>The interpreter data structure</li>
<li>Opcode dispatch</li>
<li>PMCs</li>
<li>Calling conventions, including contexts and return continuations</li>
<li>Garbage collection</li>
</ul>

<p>No knowledge of C, Parrot or virtual machines in general is required.</p>

<h4>Om foredragsholderne:</h4>
<p>Nelson Ferraz is Electronic Engineer, Master in Business Information
    Systems, and has been working with Perl for almost 10 years. Co-founder
    of the Brazilian Perl Society, nowadays he lives and works in Lisbon.</p>

<p>Jonathan Worthington:
</p><blockquote>&quot;After graduaing last summer, I&#39;ve been doing a
    mix of consultancy, going to Perl events and traveling. I started
    hacking on the Parrot VM in 2003, mostly working on improving Windows
    support through a number of little patches. I&#39;m to blame for the Parrot
    bytecode file linker and the .Net =&gt; Parrot bytecode translator, which
    I worked on as my final year degree project. My more recent Parrot
    exploits include working on changes to the bytecode file design and
    leading the implementatin of the new object model, complete with
    roles.&quot;</blockquote>



<p>Foredragene vil totalt vare i 1,5-2 timer, og etter det faglige vil vi forflytte
 oss til et egnet utested i nærheten for å sosialisere. </p>

<!-- EOF $Source: /home/groupleaders/oslo/.cvsroot/web_docs/arrangementer/2004-12-02-maypole.html,v $ -->
