---
title: "Code of Conduct for the Nordic Perl Workshop and Mojoconf 2018"
layout: default
design: npw2018
---

# Conference Code of Conduct

All attendees, speakers, sponsors and volunteers at our conference are
required to agree with the following code of conduct. Organisers will enforce
this code throughout the event. We are expecting cooperation from all
participants to help ensuring a safe environment for everybody.

_tl;dr: Donâ€™t be a Jerk; Strive to be Excellent_

## Need Help?

You have our contact details in the emails we&#39;ve sent.

## The Quick Version

Our conference is dedicated to providing a harassment-free conference
experience for everyone, regardless of gender, age, sexual orientation,
disability, physical appearance, body size, race, or religion. We do not
tolerate harassment of conference participants in any form. Sexual language
and imagery is not appropriate for any conference venue, including talks,
workshops, parties, Twitter and other online media. Conference participants
violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled from the conference
_without a refund_ at the discretion of the conference organisers.

## The Less Quick Version

Harassment includes offensive verbal comments related to gender, age, sexual
orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion,
sexual images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following,
harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of talks or other
events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply
immediately.

Sponsors are also subject to the anti-harassment policy. In particular,
sponsors should not use sexualised images, activities, or other material.
Booth staff (including volunteers) should not use sexualised
clothing/uniforms/costumes, or otherwise create a sexualised environment.

If a participant engages in harassing behavior, the conference organisers may
take any action they deem appropriate, including warning the offender or
expulsion from the conference with no refund.

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have
any other concerns, please contact a member of conference staff immediately.
Conference staff can be identified as they&#39;ll be wearing branded t-shirts.

Conference staff will be happy to help participants contact hotel/venue
security or local law enforcement, provide escorts, or otherwise assist those
experiencing harassment to feel safe for the duration of the conference. We
value your attendance.

We expect participants to follow these rules at conference and workshop venues
and conference-related social events.
